# Using-CAD-software-in-everyday-application
CAD or computer-aided design is the use of computer-based software to digitally create 2D drawings and 3D models of real-life objects before their manufacture. Using CAD, one can share, review, simulate, and modify designs easily, thus helping in building innovative and unique products. <br>
The main purpose of CAD is to optimize and streamline the designer’s workflow, increase productivity, and improve the quality and details of the design. <br>
CAD software is often associated with technical discipline likes engineering or architecture but it can be used in a wide variety of professions and projects like architecture, arts, and engineering. Some of the professions that use CAD tools are architects, engineers, city planners, animation illustrators, drafters, graphic designers, fashion designers, interior designers, exterior designers, game designers, product designers, industrial designers, and manufacturers. Many of the best cad design services in Pune provides a full range of Cad services, including conversion, 2D drafting, 3D modeling, animation, and more. <br>
Some of the places where one can use CAD software are:<br>
• 3D Printing: If you have access to a 3D printer or can hire a 3D printing service, you can get creative with what you need. From jewelry to replacements for broken knobs, CAD software can be used to design anything you want. Many online printers will take your files and send you the finished piece. A 3D printing company will help you bring your desired object into real life. <br>
• Building furniture: You know the frustration when you want a unique piece of furniture for your home but can’t seem to first the perfect one anywhere? Well, with CAD you can design any kind of furniture you want. Woodworking is a popular activity that is getting revived with technologies like CAD. You can take advantage of hundreds of online platforms that offer design inspiration to create a piece exactly like the one you are imagining.<br>
• Architecture: Architecture is one of the first things that come to mind when we think of CAD design. Architecture can also mean something of a smaller scale- like making changes to or building an addition to your home. With CAD you can clearly see what you can fit in your existing home and if you have the space to add a master suite or an outdoor pool. You can use it to lay how exactly you want it and will also include technical pieces like electrical and plumbing. If you are not so great at designing but have a lot of ideas, fret not! A CAD design company will help you in creating the designs of your dreams for your home. <br>
• Interior design: Whether it is a simple addition or revamping your entire bedroom, CAD software will help in reimagining your room. You can get a clear idea of where you can install the fireplace or add overhead lamps. Want to buy a bigger bed? Make sure it will fit in the room with all your other furniture. <br>
• Outdoor design: Since CAD allows you to create a mockup of any physical space in either a 2D or 3D model, you can use it to create plans and mockups of outdoor layouts for both residential and commercial spaces. In addition to interior design, CAD will also help you layout your garden, patio, or any other outdoor space. <br>
• Fashion: Yes, surprisingly CAD software is also used in the fashion industry. Want to take your wardrobe to the next level? Just like woodworking, fashion is also a great field to dabble in for DIYers. Maybe you have a design in mind but aren’t sure how it will look in real life? With CAD, you can design any clothing article. <br>
• Mapping: With the growing number of map apps available on the app stores, you probably think you will never need a map again. Well, think again! We have all been stuck in a no-service zone, making our online apps totally worthless when navigating through a new area. Custom maps can help you avoid this situation. Fill it with places of your interest, your hotel, and the roads you will take. With CAD you can keep it digital on your smartphone or you can even print it out. <br>
Whatever you want to create or build, CAD will help you in making preliminary designs and layouts, adding design details and calculations, and creating 3D models. You can also hire a <a href="https://www.exelus3d.com/services/cad-design/">CAD design company in Pune</a> to create your designs in more detail. <br>
